Perhaps for us,
our past mistakes are keeping us
from moving forward.
That was the challenge for Jim Loyd.
He was raised in the truth
but did not progress to baptism.
By his teen years,
he was getting into trouble.
As he describes it,
in his heart he had left Jehovah.
His later involvement
with gangs and violence
put him in a place
he never expected to be.
But you will be greatly encouraged
to see where he is now.
Things that have happened to you,
you can’t change
—but your personality you can.
We can change our personality
with Jehovah’s help.
By the time I was 25,
I was associating with notorious criminals.
I guess I was a criminal too
—just took a wrong turn and kept going.
I found myself a fugitive on the run.
I was sentenced to many years in prison.
At 25, I felt like it might as well
have been a life sentence.
Isolation and lockdown
was a very lonely place,
and I thought,
‘How did I get here?’
I remember a happier time in my life.
My mom would take us to meetings.
I was in the Theocratic Ministry School.
All the friends were so loving.
My mom sent me subscriptions
to The Watchtower and Awake!
I had a box under my bunk,
and I’d toss them in there
—never opened them.
And I must have had a years’ worth.
You know, I never told her:
“Stop sending them, Mom.
I’m not reading them.”
I found out through my mom
that my dad had died.
I felt that I broke his heart.
I pulled out the box from under my bunk.
Right on top was a book,
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life.
And at that moment, I knew
Jehovah hadn’t forgotten me.
I remembered that book.
I remembered that book when I was a boy.
I placed that book out in service.
I opened it up.
And, of course, the theme scripture
for that publication
was Revelation 21:3, 4:
“The tent of God is with mankind.”
I read it that night the whole night.
I read the whole book.
Of course, that little bell went off.
I couldn’t deny that this was the truth.
So what was I going to do about it?
Shortly after that, I got transferred,
so I called my mom and told her.
It was funny; she asked,
“Do you think there are
any Jehovah’s Witnesses
that go up there?”
I told her: “I don’t think so.
“It’s way up in the mountains.
I don’t think they go up there;
it’s a little fire camp.”
I wasn’t a spiritual person yet.
All the magazines and books
went back into the box
and back under my bunk.
I’d only been there five minutes,
and a guard came in and said,
“Are you a Jehovah’s Witness?”
I couldn’t believe it.
And I told him, “I studied with,
been studying with Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
And he said:
“Oh, good. Follow me.”
And I followed him,
and he took me
and introduced me to a brother
who had been coming up
there regularly
to study the Bible
with inmates there.
And I realized
at that moment that once again
Jehovah had not forgotten me.
That brother faithfully came up there
for the next two years
every Friday night.
He thought that it’d be
a good idea to have
a Theocratic Ministry School,
so he got it approved.
He would do the number one talk,
and the other brother
that would come with him
would do the highlights,
and then the three of us inmates
would do the other parts.
I was giving a talk every week.
And he started making
tape recordings of the meetings.
I’d listen to them over and over,
until the next week.
I knew that if I was going
to return to Jehovah,
I had to make some adjustments.
With Jehovah’s help
—I leaned on him more,
relied on his strength more—
it was then that I really felt
that I could do this.
The beard became a goatee,
and then it just became a mustache.
No drugs, no alcohol, no smoking,
and I cleaned up my language.
Then I finally got released,
got a job as an electrician,
and was able to get my own place
and started going to meetings.
I was listening to the Watchtower,
and different ones were commenting.
‘Oh, that’s his wife’
—one of the brothers
who came up to visit me.
I kept looking to see,
so I could finally put a face
to the voices
that I’d been listening to.
I let Jehovah mold me
into something good.
There are many blessings
since dedicating my life to Jehovah.
I’ve been an elder for ten years now.
One of my sons came into the truth.
I met my wonderful wife.
She’s helped me
to grow spiritually
and to love Jehovah even more.
One thing I kept praying for and he’s blessed
me with is to forgive myself
—to have a clean conscience
and freeness of speech.
And he’s done that.